---
layout: post
title: Ash-free dry weight
date: '2025-12-08'
categories: Physiology 
tags: [KBay]
projects: NSF CAREER
---

## Ash-free dry weight for KBay samples. 

This post will contain details on measuring ash-free dry weight (AFDW) the KBay samples for the NSF CAREER project. 

### Materials needed 

- Aluminum pans
- Drying oven (60°C)
- Muffle furnance (450°C)
- Analytical balance (0.0001)
- Gloves 
- P1000 + tips 

### Protocl 

This protocol will use the 1 mL AFDW aliquots taken during airbrushing (see airbrushing protocol [here](https://github.com/JillAshey/Ashey_Barott_Lab_Notebook/blob/main/posts/2025-11-11-KBay-Airbrushing.md)). 

- Label each pan with an ID number and the time point (if doing multiple timepoints in one run). Use a pencil or spatula to scrape the info into the bottom of the pan. 
	- Don't use a sharpie, it will burn off in the furnance. 
- After labeling, burn the pans in the muffle furnance at 450°C for 4-6 hours.
	- Make sure pans are not touched without gloves on. 
- After 4-6 hours, turn muffle furnance off and let furnance come back to room temperature before taking pans out. 
- Weigh burned pans on the analytical balance and record weight (to 4 decimal places) in lab notebook.
	- While this is happening, take out 1 mL aliquots of host material to thaw. 
- Pipette 1 mL of the host material into the pre-burned pan. 
- Burn pans in drying oven at 60°C for 24 hours. 
- After 24 hours, turn off oven and let oven come back to room temperature. 
- Weigh pans on the analytical balance and record weight (to 4 decimal places) in lab notebook.
- Burn pans in muffle furnance at 450°C for 4-6 hours.
- After 4-6 hours, turn muffle furnance off and let furnance come back to room temperature before taking pans out. 
- Weigh pans on the analytical balance and record weight (to 4 decimal places) in lab notebook. 
- Use R code to calculate AFDW. 

