---
layout: post
title: Gel electrophoresis 
date: '2026-06-29'
categories: Gel 
tags: [General]
projects: General
---

## Gel electrophoresis

This protocol details the steps for making and running a 1% agarose gel. 

### Materials needed

- p250, p20, p2  + tips 
- Gel boxes, gel tray, gel electronics box, combs
- 1x TAE 
- Flask (gel only)
- Weigh boat + scale
- Agarose 
- Microwave
- SYBER safe dye 
- Loading dye (stored at -20°C)
- 1kb ladder (stored at -20°C)
- Flash drive 

### Gel protocol

- Making a 1% gel: 
	- Small box: 50mL 1x TAE, 0.5g agarose
	- Big box: 250mL 1x TAE, 2.5g agarose
- Use a graduated cylinder to measure the desired amount of 1x TAE and pour it into the "gel only" flask.
- Use a weigh boat to measure the desired amount of agarose and pour it into the flask with the TAE. 
- Swirl it around to mix and microwave 
	- Small gel: ~40 seconds 
	- Big gel: ~2 mins 
- Open the microwave every 20 seconds and swirl the flask to mix the agarose. Use heat safe gloves or a rag to hold the flask because it will be hot. 
- Keep adding microwave time until the liquid is completely clear. 
- Add desired amount of SYBER dye (5uL for small gel, 25uL for big gel) and swirl to mix. 
- Set up the gel cast mold. Place the tray sideways in the gel box and make sure the seal is air-tight with the gaskets. 
- Put desired combs in the tray.
- Let the gel cool in the flask and then pour it into the gel tray. 
- Let the gel harden until opaque and cool (~20-30 mins). 
- Take out the gel tray and orient the tray with the comb side at the top of the box near the black electrode. 
- Take the comb out of the gel by pulling straight up on the comb. 
- Pour enough "used" TAE buffer into the gel box to cover the gel with a thin layer of liquid. 
- On a strip of parafilm, add 2uL dots of loading dye for sample and ladder loading. 
- Aliquot out 6-8uL of sample or ladder and mix it with the loading dye on the parafilm by pipetting up and down. 
- Add the sample or ladder to the appropriate well, keeping track of where each sample is going with a map in a notebook. 
- Once the gel is loaded, put on the cover. 
	- MAKE SURE that the gel is set up to "run towards red". 
- Plug the cables into the gel electronics box. 
- Turn on the gel box by pressing the center button.
- Make sure voltage is set to ~80 and time is set to ~60 mins. Press the run button when everything is set. 
- Cover the gel box with a cardboard box to run in the dark (SYBER is light sensitive). 
- After the gel has finished running, take the tray out of the box and slide the gel onto a kimwipe or paper towel. 
- Take the gel to the gel imaging machine. 

### Gel imaging protocol 

Usually, gels can be looked at with a UV light box. For whatever reason, we do not have access to one in Leidy but we do have a complicated gel imager. The imager is touchscreen only. 

- Turn on the gel imager by pressing the power button on the front. It will take a few mins to power on. 
- Wait until the circle at the bottom lefthand corner of the screen (labeled CCD status) turns from green to yellow. This means the imager is ready to go!
- Place the gel on the clear tray with black outline (labeled Fluorescence Trans-UV). If you can't find it, look in the cabinents to the left (where old Guava used to be) or inside the imager. Put the tray on the bottom shelf and close the imager door. 
- Under the Capture tab, click Fluorescence. 
- Select Epi-RGB and select the blue and green options. Exposure should be set to auto and the box next to high dynamic range should be checked. 
- Click start. It will take a few mins to run. 
- Once the imager is done, the gel image will come up on the screen. You can toggle between Green and Blue filters to see which one is best to see your bands. 
- Plug a flash drive in to the imager (USB port next to the power button). 
- Click Save on the image and save it to the USB. 
	- On the USB, the data will save to a folder called AI600 images. In this folder, there will be another folder containing gel images from your session. In this folder, there will be a Blue and Green fluorescence tif and a jpg with both. 